
CACM Special Section on East Asia and Oceania



Communications of the ACM, the flagship publication of the Association, been chronicling advances in all fields of computing since 1958. 
Throughout the decades, many of the greatest pioneering achievements and innovations in technology were introduced first in Communications.

In 2018, Communications debuted the first in a series of special sections designed to spotlight a region of the world, with the goal of 
introducing readers to new voices, innovations, and research on a global scale. The most recent section, in the April 2019 issue, covered the Europe region.
 
This is a call for articles for the inaugural 
Special Section on East Asia and Oceania. This region includes Japan, Korea, Taiwan, 
South East Asia (Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Brunei, Vietnam, Thailand, Myanmar, Philippines, Laos, Cambodia), 
and Oceania (Australia, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Fiji, Melanesia, Polynesia, Micronesia).

The submission of articles for this section is a two-step process: In the first step, in response to this call, 
the authors are requested to submit a one page free-format PDF file, describing an abstract of their planned article. 

Articles can be in any aspect or field of computing, and cover research, education, or innovation.

Some potential areas of interest could include:

> Technical and governance challenges that can benefit from data science and AI;

> Key advances in cyber-security and privacy;

> Key technological advances to aid healthcare and aging population;

> Technology to advance sustainable social and environmental development;

> Key technological advances to aid and enhance education;

> Regional advances in supercomputing;

> Regional advances in consumer electronics, embedded systems, and robotics; 

> Research advances showing translation in any field of computing; and,

> Technology initiatives featuring engagement of academia, industry, and government.

Potential authors are requested to send a one-page PDF file giving title, author name, and description to:

 cacm20@comp.nus.edu.sg by 15th July 2019.


Based on the submissions, a workshop will be held at the National University of Singapore. 
Selected authors will be invited to the workshop to be held in Singapore on August 30th, 2019. 
The workshop will involve discussions and brainstorming to shape the narrative for the Special Section on East Asia and Oceania.

The types of articles chosen for inclusion in this section will be designated as either short Hot Topics articles (800–1,200 words max), 
or longer Big Trends articles (15,00–1,800 words max). 
Submissions are actively sought from academia, industry, and government agencies.
