
Paper # 1

Title: Contractual Consistency of BON Static and Dynamic Diagrams

Authors: Ali Taleghani, Jonathan Ostroff


1 - How do you classify this paper? 2.5

   3: Strong Accept

   2: Weak Accept

   1: Weak Reject

   0: Strong Reject

 
 2 - What is your overall expertise concerning the subject areas of this
paper? X

   X: I am an expert.
   Y: I am knowledgeable in the area, though not an expert
   Z: I am not an expert. My evaluation is that of an informed outsider.



 3 - Main Contributions of the paper

The paper describes a theoretical approach to check, through theorem proving, 
the contractual consistency between static and dynamic diagrams 
written in a subset of BON. 

BON is a standard for designing model driven diagrams, where a 
system is described providing two different views (e.g., kind of diagrams), 
one static and one dynamic.

Static diagram depicts, using a graphical model reminding UML, 
classes (or cluster of related classes) and pre and post 
conditions that must hold over the class routines.
Dynamic diagrams shows the communication 
between objects, that is messages sent from one object to other 
object(s). 

Contractually consistency (CC) holds if for all the messages in the dynamic 
diagram whether the preconditions of a routine associate with a message 
are satisfied before the message is executed, and whether the postcondition 
of the routine do not evaluate to false afterward.  	

The paper provides a symbolic model of execution of BON diagrams, 
formally defines the CC, and designs a checker for CC based on an existing 
theorem prover. Finally it discusses advantages and disadvantages of the 
approach. 

 4 - Points in favour or against the paper

The paper is well written, it is sound and complete (self contained). 

 5- Specific Comments for improving the paper

Some minor typos. Please use $\mathit{}$ and not $$ for itemize 
function's name (e.g. \mathit{false}). 

I would also enrich a bit more the conclusion, e.g., by summarizing 
the experience. 

The actual conclusion sounds more only as future works, and it comes evidently
from the conclusions section of the phd thesis the work is based on. 

It the only weaker section of the paper. 
Even, in row +4, the word "thesis" has been use instead of "paper". 
Please fix it.



