
Paper # 1

Title: Contractual Consistency of BON Static and Dynamic Diagrams

Authors: Taleghani & Ostroff


1 - How do you classify this paper?

   3: Strong Accept

   2: Weak Accept

   1: Weak Reject

   0: Strong Reject

2: Weak Accept

 
 2 - What is your overall expertise concerning the subject areas of this
paper?

   X: I am an expert.
   Y: I am knowledgeable in the area, though not an expert
   Z: I am not an expert. My evaluation is that of an informed outsider.

Y: I am knowledgeable in the area, though not an expert


 3 - Main Contributions of the paper

The authors propose a methodology for verifying the contractual
consistency of static and dynamic models of a system in
model-driven development.  They assume that a static model is
given as a set of class diagrams whose methods are specified
using pre- and postconditions, i.e., using contracts, and
that a dynamic model is given as a sequence of method calls
whose parameters are specified using first-order constraints,
i.e., a scenario.  They then check, using symbolic execution and
theorem proving, the feasibility of the scenario for any
implementation of the classes satisfying the contract.  As
such, no implementation of the static model is required.

An experimental implementation of the method (BDT) is described.
BDT is an Eclipse plug-in which uses BON as the modeling language and
the ESC prover Simplify to discharge the verification conditions.

 4 - Points in favour or against the paper

A weakness of the paper is that the only definition of contractual
consistency given is procedural, i.e., in terms of a particular
algorithm for computing symbolic execution steps.  As a result,
it takes some reflection to appreciate that contractual consistency
requires that a scenario must succeed for all runs rather than that
it can succeed for some runs.  This subtlety is never discussed by the
authors.  Perhaps a better presentation would be to introduce
states and runs, define contractual consistency in terms of these,
and then prove the correctness of the algorithm presented.

 5- Specific Comments for improving the paper

In Figure 1, shouldn't i >= 0 be a precondition of withdraw in
CHECKING and w >= 0 be a precondition of withdraw in SAVING?

Starting on page 6 and on subsequent pages, "ch.b", "ch.a", and
"s.b" are often written instead of "ch.balance", "ch.active",
and "s.balance".

In defining the SSC_i, the precondition of r_i is omitted.
Is this an optimization attributable to the fact that SSC_{i-1}
entails the precondition of r_i?  If so, this fact should be noted
since it is conventional to include the precondition as a conjunct
when defining the post-image of a formula under a transition.

In Section 3.6, you might include some discussion concerning
the implications of requiring that SSC_{i-1} entail the
precondition of r_i.  Contractual consistency is stronger
than, e.g., simply checking for non-emptiness of the
composition of the transition relations along a scenario.

In Section 4, eliminate the hyphen from "implement-ability".

In Sections 4.1.1 and 5, what are "multi-dot notations"? 

-------------------------


